---
layout: post
title: Release 0.4.1
tags:
- assigns
- cookie
- git
- mack
- News
- rails
- release
- Releases
- session
- testing
- Updates
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
---
On the heels of yesterdays release of 0.4.0, there is a new release today, 0.4.1. Although this is not a <em>sexy</em> release, as 0.4.0 was, this is an important release.

What makes this release so important is that it fixes, adds, or improves testing support for Mack applications.

The implementation of some of the testing stuff has changed under the covers, but it's the new stuff that is really important. let's take a look at some of the stuff:
<ul>
	<li><strong>assigns(key)</strong> - This one should be familiar to all you Rails folks out there. This allows you to get an instance variable that was set in a controller, and access it in your test.
<pre>def test_something
  get foo_index_url
  assert_not_nil assigns(:foo_list)
end</pre>
</li>
	<li><strong>in_session</strong> - This methods allows you to wrap a block in the context of a session. This is great if you're trying to do integration testing.</li>
	<li><strong>set_cookie, remove_cookie</strong> - These methods allow you to either set or a remove a cookie in your tests. Great if you want to test an action that reads a cookie, or test to see what happens if you set a cookie, then remove the cookie and call something else. Also great to use with the in_session method.</li>
</ul>
There are a few other hidden treats in there, but those are some of the highlights. These things help bring Mack testing to a usable level.

The Mack Demo Blog application has been updated to demonstrate some these things. You can pull the demo using Git here: <a href="git://github.com/markbates/mack_blog_demo.git" target="_blank">git://github.com/markbates/mack_blog_demo.git</a>

Changelog:
<ul>
	<li>Improved testing support.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
	<li>Added assigns support to testing. This is allows for pulling instance variables that were set in a controller to tests.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
	<li>Added ability to do 'session' based tests.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
	<li>Added assert_difference method.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
	<li>Added ability to set/remove cookies before requests are made.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
	<li>gem: mack_ruby_core_extensions 0.1.4</li>
</ul>
<pre>$ sudo gem install mack</pre>
